Getting started with the MakerLisp Machine

Before getting started, please review the hardware reference manual in doc/manuals/mlmhwref.pdf.

1) You will need a FAT32 formatted micro-SD card, of the SDHC type. SDXC cards WILL NOT WORK. Any
SDHC card you buy of 32 Gb or less capacity is going to be formatted for FAT32, out of the box.
Follow the instructions in doc/HOWTO/update.txt to place the SD card filesystem image on the SD
card. Insert the SD card in the MakerLisp Machine CPU card's micro-SD socket.

a. We recommend SanDisk "Ultra Plus" SDHC cards. Many other brands and varieties also work,
but this is the inexpensive option with which we have the most test time. Samsung SDHC cards DO NOT
WORK with this product, we haven't determined the cause yet.

2) If you want to use the real-time calendar clock, you'll need a CR1632 battery. Install it in the
battery holder of the CPU card. 

3) MakerLisp Machine CPU card alone (no USB keyboard, no VGA display).

a) You will need a USB connector type A to micro type connector cable. Connect the USB/UART on the
CPU card to your computer, using the USB cable. Your computer may have to load a driver for the
CPU card's USB/UART, but when it is ready, you should see the yellow LED on the CPU card light up.

b) You need terminal emulator software, to run on another computer, which becomes the terminal for
MakerLisp Machine CPU. We recommend PuTTY, and there is a note in this directory describing how to
set up PuTTY for use with the MakerLisp Machine. Set up your terminal emulator software as
described in ./doc/HOWTO/putty.txt, or set the equivalent parameters in your terminal emulator
program.

c) The CPU should aready be running. Start typing now, or hit the CPU reset button to start from
scratch. Now go to "Setting the date and time", below.

4) MakerLisp Machine full system (USB keyboard, VGA display)

a) Follow the instructions in doc/HOWTO/wire.txt to connect all four boards for a complete system.

b) Connect a USB keyboard to the USB keyboard controller and a VGA monitor to the VGA display
controller.

c) Apply power. The system should start up.

5) Setting the date and time

If you have installed a battery in the CPU card, you can set the date and time.

Note: The first time a program is "auto-loaded" (see doc.manuals/mlmswref.rtf) from the SD card,
it must be read from the SD card, and as it starts to execute, this may trigger other Lisp form
definitions to be auto-loaded from the SD card. Once these programs and forms are in memory, this
will not happen again, but the first time a program is executed, it can incur the costs of loading
the requisite support from the SD card, and its startup may be slow. So you may set the
time once, and then you may want to set the time again, now that 'time' is fast, to get the real
time clock synchronized to the exact second of the clock you are using as a reference.

Set the date:

(date '"4-1-2019")

Set the time (in 24-hour format):

(time '"21:00:01")

6) There are demonstration programs in the "/demo" directory. Try:

(cd '/demo)
(ls)
(cat 'hello.l)
(hello)
