How to wire all four boards (CPU, I/O expansion, USB keyboard controller, VGA controller) for the
MakerLisp Machine

0. Please review the HW reference manual in doc/manuals/mlmhwref.pdf.

-----

1. Eight female-to-female jumper wires are required. One source is the Velleman Store,
https://www.vellemanstore.com, part number WJW012, "Set of AWG Breadboard jumper wires - one pin
female to female - 5.9". This is a package of 10 wires in 5 colors, 2 of each color.

2. We recommend using the two black wires for ground, and the two red wires for 5V.

3. The source of 5V and ground for the USB keyboard controller and the VGA display controller,
should be I/O expansion board power distribution groups to the left and right of the GPIO pins at
the front (away from barrel jack, debug connector, and battery/external power headers) edge of
the expansion board. When the expansion board is oriented so the front is faciing you, +5V will be
on the outside left and ground will be on the outside right of these 3-pin groups (the middle pin
is 3.3V).  

4. Of course, keep power off while making these connections, until the connections are all there
and you have checked that they are correct.

5. VGA display controller connections:

a. 5V "5" pin on VGA board to expansion board power distribution 5V.

b. Ground "G" pin on VGA board to expansion board power distribution ground.

c. Receive "RX" pin on VGA board to expansion board GPIO "PD0".

d. Communication, terminal ready indicator "C" pin on VGA board to expansdion board GPIO "PB1".

e. Transmit "TX" pin on VGA board to USB keyboard controller "R" (see below).

6. USB keyboard controller

a. 5V "5" pin on USB board to (other) expansion board power distribution 5V.

b. Ground "G" pin on USB board to (other) expansion board power distribution ground.

c. Receive "R" pin on USB board to VGA board "TX" (see above).

d. Transmit "T" pin on USB board to expansion board GPIO "PD1".

7. Turn on power and wait for the beep !

8. If your keyboard does not seem to be doing anything, check the "RX" jumper on the expansion
board. For input from a USB keyboard, and NOT the USB/UART connection, you want this jumper
REMOVED, not bridging the two header pins front to back. Consult the hardware reference manual
noted in step 0.

9. When setting up external circuits, on a breadboard for example, you may find uses for the
expansion board's regulated 3.3V power. Also, you may need to adjust the routing of 5V and ground
from the expansion board, to a bus on the breadboard, so other components and circuits can
connect to the same 5V and ground supplied by the expansion board.
